README.md, before:

# Project Zipper

`pz` is a lightweight Go CLI that creates and extracts zip archives using only the Go standard library. It generates unique archive names by appending version suffixes when a zip with the base name already exists.

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later

## Install

```powershell
# From the project root
go install ./cmd/pzip
```

This installs the `pzip` binary into your `$GOBIN` (or `$GOPATH/bin`).

## Usage

### Create Archive

```powershell
pz <path-to-folder>
```

- Archives the specified folder into `<folder>.zip` alongside the source folder.
- If `<folder>.zip` already exists, a versioned archive such as `<folder>-v1.zip`, `<folder>-v2.zip`, etc. is created instead.
- Paths containing spaces are supported without quoting (e.g. `pz C:\Active Projects`).

### Extract Archive

```powershell
# Extract to current directory
pz -x <archive.zip>

# Extract to specific destination
pz -x <archive.zip> <destination-folder>
```

- Extracts the contents of a zip archive
- Creates destination directory if it doesn't exist
- Shows progress bar with extraction speed
- Includes path traversal protection for security

### Progress Output

**Creating Archive:**
```text
Creating archive for H:\Example\Project (6.1 MB)...
[##############################--------------------] 62% (3.8 MB/6.1 MB) 4.2 MB/s
Archive complete: H:\Example\Project -> H:\Example\Project.zip (6.1 MB source, 2.9 MB archive, 12 files)
```

**Extracting Archive:**
```text
Extracting Project.zip (2.9 MB)...
[##################################################] 100% (6.1 MB/6.1 MB) 8.3 MB/s
Extraction complete: Project.zip -> H:\Example\Extracted (6.1 MB extracted, 12 files)
```

## Windows Env

To add the tool to the system `env` you can copy the pz.exe from `bin\pz.exe` to `C:\Program files\pz\pz.exe`.
Then `start` type `env` click `Enviroment Variables` select `Path > Edit > New`.
Then paste `C:\Program files\pz\`.

Open `cmd / powershell` type `pz` and you should get `Usage: pz <folder>`.

## Development

```powershell
# Format code
gofmt -w .

# Build and verify
go build ./...

# Run tests
go test ./...
```

`pzip` Can be renamed to `pz` when you run `go build -o pz.exe`

## Continuous Integration

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) that checks formatting and runs the test suite on each push and pull request.

## License

MIT License. See [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Add tar.gz archive support to CLI and zipper package
This commit introduces support for creating and extracting tar.gz (gzip) archives alongside zip archives. The CLI now accepts a format flag to choose between zip and tar.gz, and auto-detects archive format during extraction. New functions and tests for tar.gz naming, creation, extraction, and progress reporting are added to the zipper package.

README.md, after:

# Project Zipper

`pz` is a lightweight Go CLI that creates and extracts zip and gzip archives using only the Go standard library. It generates unique archive names by appending version suffixes when an archive with the base name already exists.

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later

## Install

```powershell
# From the project root
go install ./cmd/pzip
```

This installs the `pzip` binary into your `$GOBIN` (or `$GOPATH/bin`).

## Usage

### Create Archive

**Create ZIP archive (default):**
```powershell
pz <path-to-folder>
```

**Create tar.gz archive:**
```powershell
pz -f gz <path-to-folder>
```

- Archives the specified folder into `<folder>.zip` or `<folder>.tar.gz` alongside the source folder.
- If `<folder>.zip` (or `.tar.gz`) already exists, a versioned archive such as `<folder>-v1.zip`, `<folder>-v2.zip`, etc. is created instead.
- Paths containing spaces are supported without quoting (e.g. `pz C:\Active Projects`).

### Extract Archive

```powershell
# Extract to current directory
pz -x <archive.zip>
pz -x <archive.tar.gz>

# Extract to specific destination
pz -x <archive.zip> <destination-folder>
pz -x <archive.tar.gz> <destination-folder>
```

- Extracts the contents of a zip or tar.gz archive
- Automatically detects archive format based on file extension
- Creates destination directory if it doesn't exist
- Shows progress bar with extraction speed
- Includes path traversal protection for security

### Progress Output

**Creating Archive:**
```text
Creating archive for H:\Example\Project (6.1 MB)...
[##############################--------------------] 62% (3.8 MB/6.1 MB) 4.2 MB/s
Archive complete: H:\Example\Project -> H:\Example\Project.zip (6.1 MB source, 2.9 MB archive, 12 files)
```

**Extracting Archive:**
```text
Extracting Project.zip (2.9 MB)...
[##################################################] 100% (6.1 MB/6.1 MB) 8.3 MB/s
Extraction complete: Project.zip -> H:\Example\Extracted (6.1 MB extracted, 12 files)
```

## Windows Env

To add the tool to the system `env` you can copy the pz.exe from `bin\pz.exe` to `C:\Program files\pz\pz.exe`.
Then `start` type `env` click `Enviroment Variables` select `Path > Edit > New`.
Then paste `C:\Program files\pz\`.

Open `cmd / powershell` type `pz` and you should get `Usage: pz <folder>`.

## Development

```powershell
# Format code
gofmt -w .

# Build and verify
go build ./...

# Run tests
go test ./...
```

`pzip` Can be renamed to `pz` when you run `go build -o pz.exe`

## Continuous Integration

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) that checks formatting and runs the test suite on each push and pull request.

## License

MIT License. See [`LICENSE`](LICENSE) for details.
